_For the feminine version see [[Rose-Blessed]] and for the nonbinary version see [[Rose-Sacred]]._ 

Rose_Hallowed are a complex bloodline of masculine sorcerers and sorceresses unique to [[Vorn]]. reated by the [[Rose Dragons]] during the demonic incursions into the new homeland of the [[Vornari]] homeland they were originally tasked with countering the fiendish hordes with mighty draconic spell fire. Nowadays they are seen as semi-religious figures that are to be revered by the general population. In our times any person could be born a Rose-Blessed which can be seen by the silver eyes upon birth. In such a case the mages of Rowan Tower are tasked to collect the child on their sixth birthday to educate them properly. Back in the old days before the empire however the Rose-Hallowed married and bred exclusively with each other and the [[Rose-Blessed]]. 

It is due to this almost religious reverence that many Rose-Hallowed find it hard to live normally in society. Merchants often refuse payment even though a Rose-Blessed insists on paying, inns give them the best room available, children ask them if they are angels and many more odd things one would not do for a regular person. The worst thing for many a Rose-Hallowed however that any nearby [[Kobold]] that serves the [[Rose Dragons]] goes absolutely zealously insane in their presence. It is due to this reason that the Rose-Hallowed reside exclusively in Hawthorn palace now. There they can find the peace and quiet they need. 

**Rulers of Vorn**
Originally the Grand Duchy of [[Vorn]] was ruled by the Thorne dynasty. The last and most prominent figure of this dynasty was grand duke [[Henry Thorne]], who famously fell in battle against imperial overreach. Before this disastrous battle Rose-Hallowed formed one third of the executive of [[Vorn]]. With the ruling dynasty sharing their power with a harem of [[Rose-Blessed]] surrounding them. Reports on [[Rose-Sacred]] during these early days are scarce due to limited source availability. But they are known to exist in an equally powerful position as the other two types. With the foundation of the [[Human Empire]] the practice of rule changed into a more traditional ruler set of typically a Rose-Hallowed marrying a prominent noble [[Rose-Blessed]]. It was only during the time of the [[Guilder War]] and the introduction of the electoral monarchy that the power grip of those rosen sorcerers weakened on the realm. 

**Development of Powers**
The Powers of a Rose-Hallowed only start to manifest during Puberty. Although it is vastly different from the [[Rose-Blessed]] I discussed at another location. During puberty masculine read features develop. Mighty horns will grow, teeth will become quite somewhat sharper and often a mighty draconic tail will form. Scales on the body will also likely to be very pronounced. The tongue will also split into a reptilian forked form. Halos and/or angelic/draconic wings are also known to develop on occasion.

**Treatment and Stabilisation Measures**
Unlike [[Rose-Blessed]], Rose-Hallowed do not typically require any specific treatments except for the usual tattoo and piercing stabilisation that are always done. Although this seems a good chunk less effective for Rose-Hallowed for some reason. So the change for a major incident to occur is a bit higher although not really quantifiable in a proper sense. Apart from that there are probably a myriad of unknown special needs unique to the Rose-Hallowed. Study into this subject is rare since many Rose-Hallowed fell in the [[Guilder War]] defending the [[Vornari]] lands against the imperial overreach. Meanwhile many [[Rose-Blessed]] were often employed as diplomats and therefore had diplomatic immunity. Only since recently their numbers are recovering greatly which makes extensive research into their needs possible. 