
Rose-Blessed who stay too long in a rose water contemplation bath can experience all kinds of various effects. Many of which are unknown and the Rose-Blessed themselves refuse to talk about them. To them what happens in Hawthorn Palace stays in Hawthorn Palace. In spite of this a few possible outcomes are however know. I shall list them as follows and describe. But first I must note that any such effects only occur after a whole week of constant exposure. A whole day of exposure is usually fine, two days would stretch it but by the first day this addiction becomes so enduring that a Rose-Blessed can only be pulled out if they are to leave at all unless their will power is very great. After 1 week of constant exposure a Rose-Blessed is fully immersed and removing them before the process is finished would be deadly. Following effects can occur after the month of transformation necessary. Do note that I can only listen known outcomes. There are perhaps a multitude of unknown outcomes:

- Transformation into an aquatic Rose-Blessed. This is perhaps the most common transformation that can occur. This happens most often to white haired Rose-Blessed, who seek further enlightenment but it can also occur to the other four known bloodlines. A Rose-Blessed will have their legs fused into a dolphin like tail similiar to [[merfolk]] They will also grow webbed skin between their fingers and between arm and torso. Furthermore a second eye lid forms, ears become fin like and auxiliary gills form. Those Rose-Blessed are entirely dependent on permanent exposure to Rose Water or the water of the lake surrounding Hawthorn Palace. They spend most of their time in a dream like state in which they may receive visions and omens. The sole exception to this seems to be when their physical needs have to be met. Being utterly helpless to do those themselves so called [[Rose-Maidens]] care for them permanently. It is also them who are responsible for interpreting the cryptic messages an aquatic Rose-Blessed may utter at occasion. In the [[Rose Cult]] those mutterings are seen as messages from the dragons themselves and the gods above. It is the most sacrosanct form known to the [[Vornari]] but also the most restricted existence. In spite of this quite some Rose-Blessed chose to go down this path. If so willingly or as a result of the addictive effect of Rose Water I am not able to say.
- Change of Bloodline. A rather simple change. Prolonged exposure allows a Rose-Blessed to change their spell tradition. Not much more to say about this one.
- Obtainment of a draconic spirit. One of the ways known to become a draconic acolyte. It requires immense willpower but prolonged exposure can also result in the obtainment of a draconic spirit that merges with the soul of a Rose-Blessed. This is a combat heavy variant known from the ancient days when Vorn stood along against the demonic hordes.  