---
tags:
  - Sorcerer
---
Rose-Blessed are a complex bloodline of sorceresses and sorcerers unique to [[Vorn]]. Created by the [[Rose Dragons]] during the demonic incursions into the new homeland of the [[Vornari]] homeland they were originally tasked with countering the fiendish hordes with mighty draconic spell fire. Nowadays they are seen as semi-religious figures that are to be revered by the general population. In our times any person could be born a Rose-Blessed which can be seen by the silver eyes upon birth. In such a case the mages of Rowan Tower are tasked to collect the child on their sixth birthday to educate them properly. Back in the old days before the empire however the Rose-Blessed married and bred exclusively with each other.

It is due to this almost religious reverence that many Rose-Blessed find it hard to live normally in society. Merchants often refuse payment even though a Rose-Blessed insists on paying, inns give them the best room available, children ask them if they are angels and many more odd things one would not do for a regular person. The worst thing for many a Rose-Blessed however that any nearby [[Kobold]] that serves the [[Rose Dragons]] goes absolutely zealously insane in their presence. It is due to this reason that the Rose-Blessed reside exclusively in Hawthorn palace now. There they can find the peace and quiet they need. 

**[[Rose-Blessed#Rulers of Vorn]]**
Originally the Grand Duchy of [[Vorn]] was ruled by the Thorne dynasty. The last and most prominent figure of this dynasty was grand duke [[Henry Thorne]], who famously fell in battle against imperial overreach. Before this disastrous battle Rose-Blessed formed the executive of [[Vorn]]. With the ruling dynasty sharing their power with a harem of consisting out of other Rose-Blessed surrounding them. they are known to exist in an equally powerful position as the other two types. With the foundation of the [[Human Empire]] the practice of rule changed into a more traditional ruler set of typically a Rose-Blessed marrying another Rose-Blessed. It was only during the time of the Guilder War and the introduction of the electoral monarchy that the power grip of those Rose-Blessed sorcerers weakened on the realm. 

**[[Rose-Blessed#Development of Powers]]**
The Powers of a Rose-Blessed only start to manifest during Puberty. First their hair turns either white, yellow, pink, or red. Then small horn nubs start to grow. Teeth become more pointy and canine like and the tongue splits similar to a forked reptilian tongue. On occasion a Rose-Blessed can also grow a draconic tail, develop spectral wings or draconic wings, and/or a spectral halo. It is also during the time of puberty that they start to randomly cast cantrips which makes warding their environment a very important duty for the responsible educators. During this time the body also settles into one of the four magical traditions. There seems to be little steering in this process at all and the actual tradition of power seems to be almost random or at least unknown to us. Although I would not rule out that other features could exist of which I have limited knowledge. Therefore this section and the following section only outline general tendencies I observed while working with my students at Rowan Tower.

**[[Rose-Blessed#Treatment and Stabilisation Measures]]**
Due to their inherently unstable nature and the threat they pose to society, education is mandatory for Rose-Blessed. At Rowan Tower, they are instructed in a variety of subjects, including but not limited to the seven liberal arts, Draconic, Elvish and a broad spectrum of magic disciplines. Upon reaching full physical maturity, a Rose-Blessed must undergo a special ritual in an anti-magic chamber. There, as prescribed in ancient texts, they receive special tattoos and piercings designed to stabilise their arcane energy. The tattoos regulate the magical flow of their bodies, while the piercings help them control it.

Only specific materials are effective for this process. gold, quartz, silver, and various other rose-associated gemstones yield the best results. Additionally, it has been observed that silken fabrics seem to enhance their stability. Their clothing must be highly individualised as this appears to further aid in the stabilisation process. However this procedure comes with a temporary drawback. It significantly limits the caster’s magical potential. Over time, though, the body adapts, and their power gradually returns. This process requires patient and practice. Nevertheless, undergoing the ritual is strongly advised, as failing to do so greatly increases the risk of premature death due to their unstable magic. Regular baths in rose water have also shown promise in calming the arcane turbulence within a Rose-Blessed. Furthermore they seem unable to breathe unscented air very well anymore afterwards. Which is why they mostly spend their time in flower gardens, scented chambers or with a scented veil. If they do not get this they start coughing rapidly until given scented air again.

**[[Rose-Blessed#Addictive Side Effects of Rose Water]]**
However Rose-Blessed who stay too long in a rose water contemplation bath can experience all kinds of various effects. Many of which are unknown and the Rose-Blessed themselves refuse to talk about them. To them what happens in Hawthorn Palace stays in Hawthorn Palace. In spite of this a few possible outcomes are however know. I shall list them as follows and describe. But first I must note that any such effects only occur after a whole week of constant exposure. A whole day of exposure is usually fine, two days would stretch it but by the first day this addiction becomes so enduring that a Rose-Blessed can only be pulled out if they are to leave at all unless their will power is very great. After 1 week of constant exposure a Rose-Blessed is fully immersed and removing them before the process is finished would be deadly. Following effects can occur after the month or week of transformation necessary. Do note that I can only listen known outcomes. There are perhaps a multitude of unknown outcomes:

These effects take a month to fully manifest:

- Transformation into an aquatic Rose-Blessed. This is perhaps the most common transformation that can occur. This happens most often to white haired Rose-Blessed, who seek further enlightenment but it can also occur to the other four known bloodlines. A Rose-Blessed will have their legs fused into a dolphin like tail similar to [[merfolk]] They will also grow webbed skin between their fingers and between arm and torso. Furthermore a second eye lid forms, ears become fin like and auxiliary gills form. Those Rose-Blessed are entirely dependent on permanent exposure to Rose Water or the water of the lake surrounding Hawthorn Palace. They spend most of their time in a dream like state in which they may receive visions and omens. The sole exception to this seems to be when their physical needs have to be met. Being utterly helpless to do those themselves so called [[Rose-Maidens]] care for them permanently. It is also them who are responsible for interpreting the cryptic messages an aquatic Rose-Blessed may utter at occasion. In the [[Rose Cult]] those mutterings are seen as messages from the dragons themselves and the gods above. It is the most sacrosanct form known to the [[Vornari]] but also the most restricted existence. In spite of this quite some Rose-Blessed chose to go down this path. If so willingly or as a result of the addictive effect of Rose Water I am not able to say.
- ... 

These effects usually take a week to fully manifest although timelines can differ greatly:

- Change of Bloodline. A rather simple change. Prolonged exposure allows a Rose-Blessed to change their spell tradition. Not much more to say about this one.
- Obtainment of a draconic spirit. One of the ways known to become a draconic acolyte. It requires immense willpower but prolonged exposure can also result in the obtainment of a draconic spirit that merges with the soul of a Rose-Blessed. This is a combat heavy variant known from the ancient days when Vorn stood along against the demonic hordes.  
- ...