One of the mightiest fortifications known in the entire empire and infamous even in the [[Sword Valley]]. Thornkeep guards the pass between the [[Tyller Hills]] and the [[Vornari]] lands. Anchored deep into a mountain and garrisoned by a garrison of 10k men at all times this fortress is a living testament to the survival will of the ancient [[Vornari]] against the relentless assault of [[Orc]] and [[Demon]] forces. For more than a whole century Thornkeep endured the relentless assaults of those invaders until the corpses of the enemies finally piled up high enough for the enemy to climb over the wall. Afterwards a months long fight occurred inside the fortress with push-backs and gains on both sides. The [[Vornari]] struggling to hold the keep and the castle while the invaders desperately attempted to make further inroads.  The design of the fortress was already genius in ancient times. A mighty talus (a wall anchored deep in a rock formation) and a false gate that merely leads to the other side of the fortress made taking the fortress a living nightmare.  An invader could fight hard to take the gate only to find that the actual gate has not been taken and the fortress now blocks of the supply routes. For the actual gate was on the [[Vornari]] side. Spanning the entire mountain pass in width Thornkeep still is a hugely fortified and well maintained position. The cultural trauma of the people of [[Vorn]] can be felt her. The fortress is constantly upgraded to meet current standards in fear of [[Astviel]] eventually failing to hold the line. Nowadays Thornkeep sports a multitude of towers each equipped with siege engines, bastions overlooking every approach angle and thick magically warded walls. Warded platforms for spellcasters have also been installed and the siege engines and crossbows are constantly loaded ready to fire at a moments notice. Furthermore the fortress has also been equipped with deep wells, enormous cisterns and granaries, own smithies and carpenter workshops, and kitchen gardens. No rational actor would attempt to even besiege Thornkeep is the hope the [[Vornari]] have and any irrational actor would be stalled here long enough for their invasion to become pointless. Such as happend when it was originally breached and the invaders out of the [[Sword Valley]] managed to push all the way to the river [[Rosen]] before being stopped by [[Alexander]]'s forces. 