Excerpt of an essay by Sian Wineslow, for the History of [[Vorn]] class in the Summer Semester of the Year 2567 of the Imperial Calendar

Much has been said about the institution of the Rose Sanctum within pre-imperial and early imperial [[Vorn]]. And there seem to be quite a many misunderstandings to the nature of the institution. Misunderstandings that still to this day many people seem to believe. Here I wish to clear up such misinformation in a brief fashion.  First and foremost the Rose Sanctum was an institution established by the very first [[Rose-Blessed]]. It can be seen as a proper household like anyone might have but it was also an executive organ and a diet. 

[[# Parliamentary Household]]
Within the Rose Sanctum the only people allowed were [[Rose-Blessed]], who resided there in a state of semi religious isolation, and the virgin [[Rose-Maidens]], who catered to any need or whim the sorcerers may had. During such early times they elected one of their own to serve as grand duke of [[Vorn]] with the others forming their diet, and their council. This is as far as the basic understanding goes. But from this point on misunderstandings may arise. While it is true that the early [[Rose-Blessed]] exclusively married and bred with each other, it is not true that this was in some sense an erotic institution per se. Intimacy was still completely private, fully retained into the private chambers of individuals within [[Castle Rosen]]. The institution was also far more tolerant of various sexualities than common believe would suggest. It is also untrue that [[Rose-Maidens]] were in any way coerced to serve in their function or had to serve as a type of concubine. Their services were purely practical and voluntary. That is not to say that no intimacy may have arose between those maiden clerics and a rose blessed sorcerer at all but the annals of history hold no record of such happenings. How the Rose Sanctum governed in practice is likewise completely lost to history. 

[[# Remnants of the Rose Sanctum in Vorn?]]
While the Rose Sanctum itself does not exist anymore many of the constituent parts have been reused and still exist in contemporary [[Vorn]]. For example the Rose Council serves a similar function to the sanctum itself. But it is far more representative featuring all the different estates next to the [[Rose-Blessed]] themselves of course. Furthermore within Hawthorn Palace Rose Maidens still serve some [[Rose-Blessed]] who need extra aid due to being particularly unstable or have a full time dependency on Rose Water. [[Rose-Blessed]] also continued to rule in Vorn up to the death of grand duke [[Henry Thorne]] upon whose death at the hands of treacherous and backstabbing behaviour [[Vorn]] became an elective monarchy. 

All in all the Rose Sanctum is a widely misunderstood institution that is often seen as a harem of oriental desire. A more accurate description would be diet of the sacred house hold. In there intimacy and sexuality existed but more out of the realities of human nature and practicality reasons than any fantasy with the wish to be made real. It is also to note that this system must have worked adequately enough since for many years [[Vorn]] stood alone against the relentless tide before [[Alexander]] ever showed up. 