In the year 2048 of the imperial calendar the arrival of [[Orc]] war bands and a [[Demon]] host near the territory of the [[Vornari]] caused a mass exodus south. Not able nor willing to fight or stay the [[Vornari]] marched south. With all paths cut of but a cruel narrow mountain pass many [[Vornari]] froze to death, fell to their doom or otherwise had to be left behind. Yet still with the help of 4 dragons nowadays known as the [[Rose Dragons]] most [[Vornari]] made it over the mountains where they eventually found a solitary large mountain. There they settled and erected [[Castle Rosen]]. They quickly swore fealty to their new gnomish overlords of the [[Gnomium]], who were still not fully aware of the threat looming in the north. However silver tongued as they always were and still are the [[Vornari]] convinced the gnomes to let them fortify the narrow paths between the mountains of the Tyller hills. All of those paths were blocked of by mighty fortresses. In modern days only of those former border fortresses of that time still stands in pristine condition, [[Thornkeep]]. Still fully manned and regularly repaired and upgraded it was one of the fortresses that held the tide at bay for over 100 years.  In modern [[Vornari]] memory the March of Thorns and Tears is still a traumatic event in collective remembrance. Although the march was brutal, harsh and many of their tribe died on the way, they were lucky unlike any of the other tribes of the [[Sword Valley]]  they made it out relatively intact. It is this event that historians believe caused modern [[Vorn]] to be so different from the rest of the imperial princes. As [[Vorn]] has its own distinct language not merely a dialect and own customs and traditions you will not be able to find anywhere else in the empire. 