The Guilder War was a historical event that started in the year 2512 of the imperial calendar. It was largely a response between the [[Guilder League]] one the one side and the [[Dragon Pact]] on the other. The roots of the conflict started quite before this however. The collapse of the Grand Duchy of [[Viola]] led to the entire western half of the empire leaving over notions of perceived eastern dominance. Thus creating a power vacuum that the [[Prima Bulla Imperiala]] originally tried to plug when the first ruler of the empire, [[Alexander]], disappeared. Fast forward to the year 2501 and the Grand Duchy of [[Vorn]] came with a proposal to the imperial diet. The proposal was to settle a group of displaced elves [[Vorn]] already had long trading contact with, in the most depopulated part of the watarian forest and they should get that vacant imperial vote. Aligned with this stance was the Grand Duchy of [[Watar]] who long struggled to control that remote section of the watarian forest. Thus backed by two electors the proposal was agreed upon. By the year 2508 the so called [[Rose Elves]] actually arrived. They at once began building their [[Elven Temple]] and the port nowadays known as [[Novenhaven]]. 

However in the year 2510 disaster struck. The gnomes of [[Hamburrow]] bribed the regent to give them the vote instead. This was heavily protested by [[Vorn]], [[Watar]] and the two new [[Elf|elven]] realms of [[Silkenglade]] and [[Novenhaven]] at the imperial diet. Yet their concerns fell on deaf ears. Instead the regent declared war on [[Vorn]]. [[Vorn]] was swiftly backed up by [[Watar]], its [[Elf|elven]] friends, the mages of [[The Towers]], as well as many smaller realms in the empire. The war lasted for 3 years in an almost stalemated situation. But in the year 2515 the grand duke of [[Vorn]], [[Henry Thorne]] fell in battle against imperial forces. The [[Vornari]] army swiftly retreated to Roseria expecting the worst. But for some reason the imperial army stopped. As later discovered the regent had died. This left the young heir of the Archduchy of [[Veshni]] in a tough situation. Having already opposed the war he saw no way to get elected at all. With the electors of [[Vorn]], [[Watar]], and [[The Towers]] being bitterly opposed and the ecclesiastical electors being unwilling to vote for [[Veshni]] unless a proper settlement of the conflict being agreed to, left the young arch duke no choice. He had to negotiate. Vorn demanded many things in the [[Treaty of Roseria]] but the important part was that he had secured their vote. Thus [[Vorn]] had lost the war but won the peace. The price? The status quo ante bellum and an even more dysfunctional empire. In the wake of the [[Treaty of Roseria]] Vorn was thus elevated into a Kingdom and became an elective monarchy. Ever since every noble in the empire is lobbying the [[Vornari]] estates hard for being elected.  After all it comes with the position of Archsteward, the one job that actually seems to matter in the empire, and of course the electoral vote.

Members of the [[Guilder League]] Alliance and their motivations:
- [[Veshni]]: monetary incentives and getting [[Vorn]] to finally be quiet about legislating for a while.
- [[Hamburrow]]: differing geoeconomic and geopolitical goals than [[Vorn]]. [[Vorn]] wanted a Guilder toll free port and easier access to [[Elf|elven]] wares it needs for its [[Rose-Blessed]]. [[Vorn]] also seemed willing to engineer their election via the [[Elf|elven]] vote. With three votes already being secured that new [[Elf|elven]] vote would have locked in [[Vornari]] dominance in the imperial election for a long time. Meaning [[Hamburrow]] and their [[Guilder League]] would perhaps face stricter enforcement.
- The [[Tylldrakes]]: They wanted to seize Port Rosen for themselves as [[Vorn]] has always been a trading nuisance for them. 

Members of the [[Dragon Pact]] and their motivations:
- [[Vorn]]: attempting to defend itself from imperial overreach and salvage the situation into their favour once more.
- [[Silkenglade]]: trying to obtain the electoral vote by force.
- [[Novenhaven]]: fending of the [[Guilder League]] blockade of their port and attempting to secure their trade routes.
- [[Watar]]: genuine support of a [[Vornari]] rule in the empire. Bandits have long plagued their forest and the empire largely ignored it. 
- [[The Towers]]: historical friendship with [[Vorn]] as they got help from them to rebuild after the collapse of the [[Gnomium]]. 
- [[Lothvryn]]: Genuine dislike for [[Astviel]]'s decision to stay neutral in this conflict, hatred of the [[Tylldrakes]]. 