Anasthasia Astiviella is the sole daughter of the king of Astviel, Anton Arkor Astviel and Honviel Tyllseir. Originally conceived by Anton as a grand idea for ensuring more defensiveness. After all an offspring of his own would likely be as single minded defensively focused as he is. At least that was his hope. Anasthasia had other things in mind. She wanted to study at the university in Roseria. And for that she had to get rid of the downsides of her vampirism. She ordered Myrkky Coven to work on that. The coven did indeed succeed in making her not only tolerate sunlight but actually thrive in it. Even more so none of the typical vampire disadvantages applied anymore. However she is now instead bound to her own edicts and anathema as if they were unbreakable laws the coven warned.

So she went of to study in Roseria, officially to learn more about defensive and stately measures as she told her parents. Inofficially she was rather after the vornari culture, fashion and art. While she still valued diligent stately governance she also firmly believed it has to be wrapped together with indulgence. At that university she met the sole survivor of the royal family of Lothvryn. The youngest daughter of its former ruler. The entire family apart from her died in a tragic magical mishap. Quickly falling in love with her she was the first person she ever bit. As the young woman desired not ending like her family it was rather easy for her to convince her. Thus Anasthasia had secured a realm of her own. One where she would not have to share the boring burden of defense. 

In Lothvryn she quickly established her new rule with her partner. Acting as co-rulers they both established a weird mixture of meritocracy and elevation by beauty. Only people who are beautyful, diligent, absolutely loyal and like them as they are not just for powers sake could expect to be biten. As a sign of interest they would only drink a little blood. If a person then continues to act in a way they like they will almost certainly bite them in a private and intimate setting. Thus making them thralls but letting them act on their own free will to test their loyalty. If proven worthy they will be unthralled and join their court forever as courtesans to them.  

On top of this Anasthasia developed a very weird obsession of treating the pretty women she elevates in this way as a form of art. A living canvas with agency that can perpetually change with ever new fashion. Particularly interesting to her are unique person and persons who resist the allure of this eternal youth she offers. For the tension in it is seen as great art by her. Therefore in those cases she will keep trying to convince. She will however most likely not force someone. Everyone even her thralls can walk away at any time. For denying that would break her now mandatory anathema. However she is also interested in every different form of art.